Arduino is a hardware prototyping platform, so it is a platform that can only run one program at a time. 
The thing about the Arduino is because it's not a general purpose computing platform, it's harder to get data off of it. It supports serial communication. You can do additional boards where it could send information to a web server or something else on the internet

The main difference between the Raspberry Pi and the Arduino is if you want real-time control of hardware, you want to use an Arduino. And the reason is is that Raspbian is a multipurpose, multithreaded OS. When the hardware is sending the Raspberry Pi information, your Raspberry Pi could be doing something else, right? There could be something else happening where the CPU is getting taken up by this other process and then the hardware information gets delayed. The Arduino is built to do one thing and one thing only, which is communicate with hardware. So, it will respond in more or less real time, whereas the Raspberry Pi, you know, some thread might be doing something else. So, kind of a cool thing to do is to combine the two because you get the precision of Arduino in terms of talking to hardware, and then you can get the power of the Raspberry Pi whereas with an Arduino project if you wanted it to say communicate temperature from your garden, you'd have to, you know, add a Wi-Fi board and then have some sort of service that the Wi-Fi board would communicate with. All that can be on the Raspberry Pi, and the Arduino can just send hardware information, data basically, to the Raspberry Pi, and the Raspberry Pi can then pick that up, store it, because it's a general purpose platform, we've got lots of options for storage, and expose it. And again, you might expose it by exposing a web server from the Raspberry Pi and getting information from it or having the Raspberry Pi tweet.


