 There are also two different images specifically targeted at turning the Raspberry Pi into a media center. There's a download called NOOBS, which stands for New Out-Of-Box Software. NOOBS is a great choice for beginners since it's the easiest to install, and can even multi-boot into your choice of several different distributions. It's not the best choice for a dedicated server though. Most of the OS choices are in the form of an image file containing the raw bytes to be written directly to the SD card used to boot the Raspberry Pi. 
 
 <br/>
 For the home server, the Raspbian OS is going to be the best choice. It's the most official OS there is for the Raspberry Pi, and will serve as the base upon which all the other software in this course will be installed.
 
 <br/>
 <b> SD Card Contents <b/> <br/>
 The Raspbian image is divided into two partitions, one of which uses the File Allocation Table, or FAT format. This makes it editable by most computers, including Windows. Most of these files should be left alone, but there's one in particular that can be useful to edit from your main computer in the event that something goes wrong. The config.txt file contains startup settings for the Raspberry Pi like video and overclocking settings. You'd normally edit this file directly from the Pi itself, but if you ever tweak a setting in here and then find that the Raspberry Pi stops booting up, remember that you can open this from your main computer and put things back to normal. So we can close this, and remember to eject the SD card before removing it from your computer.
 
 **LEFT OUT** Quick Tour
 <br/>
 
 Raspbian comes with a nano text editor, as well as vim if that's your preference, and the desktop environment includes a text editor called Leafpad. I'll be using nano for this course. And if the command prompt is making you nervous, there is a full desktop environment available by typing startx. This should convince you that this really is a fully functional computer, not just some toy. You could run a full office suite like LibreOffice on Raspberry Pi just fine, and a few programs ship with the base Raspbian image, like a free version of Minecraft and a programming environment called Scratch.
 
 <br/>
 
 <b> LEFT OUT: Elevated Privileges AND  Backing up</b><br/>

Windows and Linux have very different ways of letting you run potentially dangerous commands. Windows will generally let you do whatever you want, but routinely interrupts you to make sure that you really mean it. It goes something like this. You try to run a command, Windows interrupts you with a UAC prompt, you click Yes, and then Windows does what you told it to. Linux handles things a little differently. You need to say up front that you know what you're doing in Linux. You try to run a command, the command fails, and then you remember to run it through sudo and then Linux does what you told it to. So what is sudo? The sudo command, sometimes pronounced pseudo, stands for substitute user do, and lets you run commands as if you were someone else. This could be any user, but if you don't specify a particular user, it assumes that you mean the root user, which is the administrative account on the Linux system. This makes sudo roughly equivalent to run as administrator in Windows. Let's try that again, this time through the sudo command. So I'll say sudo nano config.txt. So I'm looking at the same file as before, but when I hit Ctrl+O now to save it, it's able to write the file. I'll exit nano and let's take a look at raspi-config in the same way. If I just try to run raspi-config as myself, it'll fail and give me a reminder that I'm supposed to run that through sudo. So let's try that with sudo raspi-config, and this time it runs just fine. I don't need to make any changes, so I'll exit. Now let's look around the desktop environment by typing startx. This will look pretty familiar to any Windows or Mac users. There's a Start menu with a number of different programs available on it. You can change preferences from here, there are even some games included out of the box. And the desktop can be a very convenient way to make some configuration changes. One in particular would be wireless networking. If you have a Wi-Fi adapter plugged in to your Raspberry Pi, you can set up a network using this link up here, and you'll notice that it's able to connect now. So if I want to come over here, I can run a browser, called Epiphany in this version, and I can go places such as Google to perform searches. That's one way to set up Wi-Fi, but let's go ahead and look at another. Let's exit the windowing system by clicking Shutdown. I don't really want to turn the Raspberry Pi off, I just want to log out of the windowing system, so I'll select Logout. And I'm going to use the nano editor again to make some changes to the file that we just edited with the utility inside the Windows system. It's in the etc folder under the wpa_supplicant folder, and it's called wpa_supplicant.conf. And here in nano I could make the same sorts of changes. If there were multiple networks I wanted my Raspberry Pi to connect to, I could add them one after another in the same file with one network entry each. I'll exit that, and we're back to the command prompt. Now that we've taken a quick look around, the next order of business should be to make sure that everything is up to date. Most Linux distributions will include what's called a software package manager. You can think of it like an app store, and it's used to install, update, and remove programs from the system. Raspbian uses the Advanced Packing Tool, or APT, as its package manager. Let's use APT to update the installed programs to the latest versions. Before APT can upgrade your software, it needs to know what current is. So from the command-line, through sudo, we'll run apt-get, that's apt dash get, update. And this will update APT's list of what the current versions of all the known packages are. This will run for a minute, so I'll come back when it's done. When it's finished, APT now knows what the current versions of everything is, but we haven't told it to make any changes yet. We'll do that by saying sudo apt-get upgrade, instead of update. From the Bash command-line you can hit the up arrow to get to the last command that you used, and I'm just going to make one small change to the end of that and say upgrade, and then hit Enter. This will update all of the software packages that were part of the Raspbian image to their latest versions. You'll notice that the confirmation prompt has a Y and an n, and the Y is capitalized. It's pretty common in Linux to give you a prompt and indicate which one of the two options is the default. So if I just hit Enter now, the letter that's capitalized, in this case Y for yes, is the default. You can always just type the letter Y or n as well, but it's nice to know it's there. Depending on how long it's been since your OS image was published, this can run for quite a while, or it might run for a very short time like mine just did.

<br/>





